In this video, we're going
to look at how we can
generate valid dates using
Excel's date function,
and for this example,
we're going to be working in
our supply invoice statement.
So I'm just going to
click back into that,
and you may recall that
in the supply statement,
the paid dates and
the invoice dates are not
actually valid dates,
they are just text.
Now we need to help Zara
convert those two valid dates,
so that we can do comparisons
and operations with that data.
Now the function we're going
to use is the DATE function,
and we're going to start with
a really simple example so
you can see how it works.
So clicking into S2,
we're going to type "=da" and tab to select date.
The DATE function requires
three arguments; the year,
the month, and the day,
and each of these has to be
a number rather than text.
Well, our year is
2020 and a comma.
All of the invoices were paid
on the fourth and a comma,
and this particular invoice
was paid on the 17th.
So I type 17 and now
notice no quotes because
these are just numbers,
and then I press "Enter"
and there's my valid date.
So that's how the
DATE function works.
But obviously we can't type in
the 17th because the pay
dates were different.
So we did another function
to extract that for us.
Yeah, you guessed it,
it's the RIGHT function.
So coming back to
our calculation,
we're just going to
double-click into
S2 and then I'm going to
remove that 17 because we're
going to replace it
with a calculation,
and like I said, the calculation
we need is using
the right function.
So I type ri and tab
to select right.
The text we're using
is the pay date,
then a comma, and we need
the two characters on the right.
Don't forget to
close your brackets.
Press "Enter" and now
we have a valid date.
But if we copy it down,
we can generate the pay dates
for all of our invoices.
That was quite a
simple example because
our year and our month were
the same in every case.
The next example
we're going to look
at is the invoice date.
Now the years still
stays at 2020,
but the invoice
months actually vary.
So we need to have a way
of somehow converting
MAR to a three and APR to a four,
and actually we already
know the answer.
Interestingly, the month
function will retrieve
the numeric month for us
from anything that
looks like a date,
even if it's not
actually a valid date.
So this is a nice
little surprise.
I'm going to click into R2,
and I'm just going to
have a look at how
the MONTH function
works with this data.
So I'm going to type
"=mon" and tab,
we're going to click onto
our Invoice Date and click
"Enter" and it actually
returns the three,
which is fantastic.
Often however, we
don't actually have
the luxury of something
that looks like a date.
It is more common to just
have the month name,
and if I tried that with
the MONTH function,
you see that doesn't work because
that doesn't look
anything like a date.
That's just really text.
But there's a clever
little trick you can
do to get around that.
So coming back into here,
what I'm going to do is,
I'm actually going to join
a one onto the front.
So I'm going to type one
and then I'll ampersand,
which is our
concatenate operator.
So basically I'm saying
the 1st of March,
I'm only worrying about a space,
and curiously, that also works.
So that's a really useful trick.
If you happen to have
just the month name on
a column in its own,
you can convert it
to a number using
the month function by
just joining it to a one.
Let's just finish this off.
So I'm going to double-click back
in right at the beginning,
we're going to put
our date function,
and our year is still 2020.
So I'm going to type that
followed by a comma.
We've then got our
MONTH function,
which is going to calculate
our month number for us,
so another comma,
and then once again,
we're going to need
a RIGHT function.
So I'm just going to
type "ri" tab for right.
The text I'm trying to work
with is the invoice date.
Again, I need the
two characters on
the right, close my
brackets for right,
close my brackets for my date,
and there's our
valid invoice date.
Again, we can just
copy that down.
So we've seen that we can use
the DATE function to
generate valid dates,
provided we give it a year,
a month, and a day.
In the next video,
we're going to start
looking at how we can do
mathematical operations
with our date functions.